1)Ajax:
  1-) AJAX stands for Asynchronous JavaScript And XML.
  2-) Communiactes with the servers. It can send and receive information in various formats, including JSON, XML, HTML, and text files.
  3-) It has "asynchronous" nature, which means it can communicate with the server, exchange data, and update the page without having to refresh the page. 
  4-) Receive and work with data from the server.
  5-) It is a client side script.
  6-) Ajax is “the method of exchanging data with a server, and updating parts of a web page – without reloading the entire page.
  7-) Update a web page without reloading the page.
  8-) Receive data from a server - after the page has loaded.
  9-) Request data from a server - after the page has loaded.
  10-) Send data to a server - in the background.

2)HTML:
  1-) HTML is the standard markup language for creating Web pages.
  2-) HTML stands for Hyper Text Markup Language.
  3-) HTML describes the structure of Web pages using markup.
  4-) HTML elements are the building blocks of HTML pages
  5-) HTML elements are represented by tags.
  6-) HTML tags label pieces of content such as "heading", "paragraph", "table" etc.
  7-) Browsers do not display the HTML tags, but use them to render the content of the page.
  8-) HTML tags normally come in pairs like <p> and </p>( P-for paragraph), The first tag in a pair is the start tag, the second tag is the end tag.
  9-) All HTML documents must start with a document type declaration: <!DOCTYPE html>.
  10-) The HTML document itself begins with <html> and ends with </html>.
  11-) The visible part of the HTML document is between <body> and </body>.
  12-) It decribes the content of web page.

3)CSS:
  1-) Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) is a style sheet language used for describing the presentation of a document written in a markup language.
  2-) CSS is a language that describes the style of an HTML document.
  3-) CSS describes how HTML elements should be displayed.
  4-) CSS saves a lot of work. It can control the layout of multiple web pages all at once.
  5-) External stylesheets are stored in CSS files
  6-) CSS is used to define styles for your web pages, including the design, layout and variations in display for different devices and screen sizes. 
  7-) The style definitions are normally saved in external .css files with this you can change the style of complete webpage with changing the single file.
  8-) There are 3 ways to insert CSS : External style sheet
                                       Internal style sheet
                                       Inline style
  9-) CSS Syntax : A CSS rule-set consists of a selector and a declaration block
     Selector     Declaration     Declaration
      |            |                 |
      h1        {color:  blue ;font-size-12px;}
                  |      |           |     |
               property  Value  property  Value

  10-) SS selectors are used to "find" (or select) HTML elements based on their element name, id, class, attribute, and more.

4)JavaScript:
  1-) JavaScript is the programming language of HTML and the Web.
  2-) JavaScript is easy to learn.
  3-) It is not a Programming language it is an scripting Language.
  4-) Javascript is supported by all the modern web browsers.
  5-) It supports object-oriented programming and procedural programming.
  6-) It can be used to control web pages on the client side of the browser, server-side programs, and even mobile applications.
  7-) It is comonly used in cobination with HTML, CSS, and AJAX.
  8-) HTML markup language allows web developers to format content, JavaScript allows them to make the page dynamic.
  9-) JavaScript makes web pages more dynamic by allowing users to interact with web pages, click on elements, and change the pages.
  10-) JavaScript is saved inside of HTML markup language.

5) JQuery:
  1-) jQuery is a JavaScript Library..
  2-) jQuery greatly simplifies JavaScript programming.
  3-) Before studying jQuery the basic knowlwdge of HTML,CSS and Javascript is necessary.
  4-) jQuery is a lightweight, "write less, do more", JavaScript library.
  5-) The purpose of jQuery is to make it much easier to use JavaScript on your website.
  6-) jQuery wraps mutiple line of code from javascript to a method that you can call from a single line of code.
  7-) jQuery also simplifies a lot of the complicated things from JavaScript, like AJAX calls and DOM manipulation.
  8-) The jQuery library contains the following features:HTML/DOM manipulation
                                                         CSS manipulation
                                                         HTML event methods
                                                         Effects and animations
                                                         AJAX
                                                         Utilities
  9-) jQuery runs same in all major Browsers including Internet Explorer 6.
  10-) To use jquery on your website you can : Download the jQuery library from jQuery.com
                                               Include jQuery from a CDN, like Google

6) Node.js:
   1-) Node.js is an open source server framework.
   2-) Node.js allows you to run JavaScript on the server.
   3-) Node.js runs on various platforms (Windows, Linux, Unix, Mac OS X, etc.).
   4-) Node.js uses asynchronous programming.
   5-) Node.js runs single-threaded, non-blocking, asynchronously programming, which is very memory efficient.
   6-) Node.js can generate dynamic page contents.
   7-) Node.js can create, open, read, write, delete, and close files on the server.
   8-) Node.js can collect form data.
   9-) Node.js can add, delete, modify data in your database
   10-) Node.js File: Node.js files contain tasks that will be executed on certain events.
                      Node.js files must be initiated on the server before having any effect.

7) XML:
   1-) XML stands for eXtensible Markup Language.
   2-) XML was designed to store and transport data.
   3-) XML was designed to be both human- and machine-readable.
   4-) XML was designed to carry data - with focus on what data is while HTML was designed to display data.
   5-) XML tags are not predefined like HTML tags are
   6-) It simplifies data sharing.
   7-) It simplifies data transport.
   8-) It simplifies platform changes.
   9-) It simplifies data availability.
   10-) XML stores data in plain text format. This provides a software- and hardware-independent way of storing, transporting, and sharing data.





  


                      Node.js files have extension ".js".

 





















  
 

  





